federalist 47 the particular structure
of the new government
and the distribution of power among its
different parts
from the new york packet friday february
1st
1788 madison to the people of the state
of new york
having reviewed the general form of the
proposed government and the general mass
of power allotted to it
i proceeded to examine the particular
structure of this government
and the distribution of this massive
power among its constituent parts
one of the principal objections
inculcated by the more respectable
adversaries to the constitution
is its supposed violation of the
political maxim that the legislative
executive and judiciary departments
ought to be separate and distinct
in the structure of the federal
government no regard it is said
seems to have been paid to this
essential precaution in favor of liberty
the several departments of power are
distributed and blended in such a manner
as at once to destroy
all symmetry and beauty of form and to
expose some of the essential parts of
the edifice to the danger of being
crushed by the disproportionate weight
of other parts
no political truth is certainly of
greater intrinsic value
or is stamped with the authority of more
enlightened patrons of liberty
than that on which the objection is
founded the accumulation of all powers
legislative executive and judiciary in
the same hands whether of one
a few or many and whether hereditary
self-appointed or elective
may justly be pronounced the very
definition of tyranny
were the federal constitution therefore
really chargeable with the accumulation
of power
or with a mixture of powers having a
dangerous tendency to such an
accumulation
no further arguments would be necessary
to inspire universal reprobation of the
system i persuade myself however that it
will be made apparent to everyone that
the charge cannot be supported
and that the maxim on which it relies
has been totally misconceived and
misapplied
in order to form correct ideas on this
important subject it will be proper to
investigate the sense in which the
preservation of liberty requires that
the three great departments of power
should be separate and distinct
the oracle who is always consulted and
cited on this subject is the celebrated
montesquieu
if he be not the author of this
invaluable precept in the science of
politics
he has the merit at least of displaying
and recommending it most effectually to
the attention of mankind
let us endeavor in the first place to
ascertain his meaning on this point
the british constitution was to
montesquieu what homer has been to the
didactic writers on epic poetry
as the latter have considered the work
of the immortal bard as the perfect
model from which the principles and
rules of the epic art were to be drawn
and by which all similar works were to
be judged so this great political critic
appears to have viewed the constitution
of england as the standard or to use his
own expression
as the mirror of political liberty and
to have delivered in the form of
elementary truth to several
characteristic principles of that
particular system
that we may be sure then not to mistake
his meaning in this case
let us recur to the source from which
the maxim was drawn
on the slightest view of the british
constitution we must perceive that the
legislative executive and judiciary
departments are by no means totally
separate and distinct from each other
the executive magistrate forms an
integral part of the legislative
authority
he alone has the prerogative of making
treaties with foreign sovereigns
which when made have under certain
limitations the force of legislative
acts
all the members of the judiciary
department are appointed by him
can be removed by him on the address of
the two houses of parliament
and form when he pleases to consult them
one of his constitutional councils
one branch of the legislative department
forms also a great constitutional
council to the executive chief
as on another hand it is the sole
depository of judicial power in cases of
impeachment and is invested with the
supreme appellate jurisdiction in all
other cases
the judges again are so far connected
with the legislative department as often
to attend and participate in its
deliberations
though not admitted to a legislative
vote from these facts by which
montesquieu was guided
it may clearly be inferred that in
saying there can be no liberty where the
legislative and executive powers are
united in the same person or body of
magistrates or
if the power of judging be not separated
from the legislative and executive
powers
he did not mean that these departments
ought to have no partial agency in
or no control over the acts of each
other
his meaning as his own words import and
still more conclusively as illustrated
by the example in his eye
can amount to no more than this that
where the whole power of one department
is exercised by the same hands which
possess
the whole power of another department
the fundamental principles of a free
constitution are subverted
this would have been the case in the
constitution examined by him if the king
who is the sole executive magistrate had
possessed also the complete legislative
power or the supreme administration of
justice
or the entire legislative body had
possessed the supreme judiciary or the
supreme executive authority
this however is not among the vices of
that constitution the magistrate in whom
the whole executive power resides
cannot of himself make a law though he
can put a negative on every law
nor administer justice in person though
he has the appointment of those who do
administer it
the judges can exercise no executive
prerogative though they are shoots from
the executive stock
nor any legislative function though they
may be advised with by the legislative
councils
the entire legislature can perform no
judiciary act
though by the joint act of two of its
branches the judges may be removed from
their offices
and though one of its branches is
possessed of the judicial power in the
last resort
the entire legislature again can
exercise no executive prerogative
though one of its branches constitutes
the supreme executive magistracy
and another on the impeachment of a
third can try and condemn
all the subordinate officers in the
executive department
the reasons on which montesquieu grounds
his maxim are a further demonstration of
his meaning
when the legislative and executive
powers are united in the same person or
body
says he there can be no liberty because
apprehensions may arise lest the same
monarch or senate should enact
tyrannical laws to execute them in a
tyrannical manner
again were the power of judging joined
with the legislative
the life and liberty of the subject
would be exposed to arbitrary control
for the judge would then be the
legislator were joined to the executive
power the judge might behave with all
the violence of an oppressor
some of these reasons are more fully
explained in other passages
but briefly stated as they are here they
sufficiently establish the meaning which
we have put on this celebrated maxim of
this celebrated author
if we look into the constitutions of the
several states we find that
notwithstanding the emphatical and in
some instances the unqualified terms in
which this axiom has been laid down
there is not a single instance in which
the several departments of power have
been kept absolutely separate and
distinct
new hampshire whose constitution was the
last formed
seems to have been fully aware of the
impossibility and inexpediency of
avoiding any mixture whatever of these
departments
and has qualified the doctrine by
declaring that the legislative
executive and judiciary powers ought to
be kept as separate from
and independent of each other as the
nature of a free government will admit
or as is consistent with that chain of
connection that binds the whole fabric
of the constitution in one indissoluble
bond of unity and amity
her constitution accordingly mixes these
departments in several respects
the senate which is a branch of the
legislative department is also a
judicial tribunal for the trial of
impeachment
the president who is the head of the
executive department is the presiding
member also of the senate
and besides an equal vote in all cases
has a casting vote in case of a tie
the executive head is himself eventually
elective every year by the legislative
department
and his council is every year chosen by
and from the members of the same
department
several of the officers of state are
also appointed by the legislature
and the members of the judiciary
department are appointed by the
executive department
the constitution of massachusetts has
observed a sufficient
though less pointed caution in
expressing this fundamental article of
liberty
it declares that the legislative
department shall never exercise the
executive
and judicial powers or either of them
the executive shall never exercise the
legislative and judicial powers or
either of them the judicial shall never
exercise the legislative and executive
powers or either of them
this declaration corresponds precisely
with the doctrine of montesquieu as it
has been explained and is not in a
single point violated by the plan of the
convention
it goes no farther than to prohibit any
one of the entire departments from
exercising the powers of another
department
in the very constitution to which it is
prefixed a partial mixture of powers has
been admitted
the executive magistrate has a qualified
negative on the legislative
body and the senate which is a part of
the legislature is a court of
impeachment for members both of the
executive and judiciary departments
the members of the judiciary department
again are appointable by the executive
department and removable by the same
authority on the address of the two
legislative branches
lastly a number of the officers of
government are annually appointed by the
legislative department
as the appointment to offices
particularly executive offices
is in its nature an executive function
the compilers of the constitution have
in this last point at least
violated the rule established by
themselves i pass over the constitutions
of rhode island and connecticut
because they were formed prior to the
revolution and even before the principle
under examination had become an
object of political attention the
constitution of new york contains no
declaration on this subject
but appears very clearly to have been
framed with an eye to the danger of
improperly blending the different
departments
it gives nevertheless to the executive
magistrate a partial control over the
legislative department
and what is more gives a light control
to the judiciary department
and even blends the executive and
judiciary departments in the exercise of
this control
in its council of appointment members of
the legislative are associated with the
executive authority
in the appointment of officers both
executive and judiciary and its court
for the trial of impeachments and
correction of errors
is to consist of one branch of the
legislature and the principal members of
the judiciary department
the constitution of new jersey has
blended the different powers of
government more than any of the
proceeding
the governor who is the executive
magistrate is appointed by the
legislature is chancellor and
ordinary or surrogate of the state is a
member of the supreme court of appeals
and president with a casting vote of one
of the legislative branches
the same legislative branch acts again
as executive council of the governor
and with him constitutes the court of
appeals the members of the judiciary
department are appointed by the
legislative department and removable by
one branch of it on the impeachment of
the other
according to the constitution of
pennsylvania the president who is the
head of the executive department
is annually elected by a vote in which
the legislative department predominates
in conjunction with the executive
council he appoints the members of the
judiciary department
and forms a court of impeachment for
trial of all officers judiciary as well
as executive
the judges of the supreme court and
justices of the peace
seem also to be removable by the
legislature and the executive power of
pardoning in certain cases to be
referred to the same department
the members of the executive council are
made ex-officio
justices of peace throughout the state
in delaware the chief executive
magistrate is annually elected by the
legislative department
the speakers of the two legislative
branches are vice presidents in the
executive department
the executive chief with six others
appointed three by each of the
legislative branches constitutes the
supreme court of appeals
he is joined with the legislative
department in the appointment of the
other judges
throughout the states it appears that
the members of the legislature
may at the same time be justices of the
peace in this state
the members of one branch of it are
ex-officio justices of the peace
as are also the members of the executive
council
the principal officers of the executive
department are appointed by the
legislative
and one branch of the latter forms a
court of impeachments
all officers may be removed on address
of the legislature
maryland has adopted the maxim in the
most unqualified terms
declaring that the legislative executive
and judicial powers of government
ought to be forever separate and
distinct from each other her
constitution notwithstanding makes the
executive magistrate appointable by the
legislative department
and the members of the judiciary by the
executive department
the language of virginia is still more
pointed on this subject
her constitution declares that the
legislative executive
and judiciary departments shall be
separate and distinct so that neither
exercise the powers properly belonging
to the other
nor shall any person exercise the powers
of more than one of them at the same
time
except that the justices of county
courts shall be eligible to either house
of assembly
yet we find not only this express
exception with respect to the members of
the inferior courts but that the chief
magistrate with his executive council
are appointable by the legislature
that two members of the latter are
triennially displaced at the pleasure of
the legislature
and that all the principal officers both
executive and judiciary are filled by
the same department
the executive prerogative of pardon also
is in one case vested in the legislative
department
the constitution of north carolina which
declares that the legislative executive
and supreme judicial powers of
government ought to be forever separate
and distinct from each other
refers at the same time to the
legislative department the appointment
not only of the executive chief
but all the principal officers within
both that and the judiciary department
in south carolina the constitution makes
the executive magistracy eligible by the
legislative department
it gives to the latter also the
appointment of the members of the
judiciary department including even
justices of the peace and sheriffs
and the appointment of officers in the
executive department down to captains in
the army and navy of the state
in the constitution of georgia where it
is declared that the legislative
executive and judiciary departments
shall be separate and distinct
so that neither exercise the powers
properly belonging to the other
we find that the executive department is
to be filled by appointments of the
legislature
and the executive prerogative of pardon
to be finally exercised by the same
authority
even justices of the peace are to be
appointed by the legislature
inciting these cases in which the
legislative executive
and judiciary departments have not been
kept totally separate and distinct
i wish not to be regarded as an advocate
for the particular organizations of the
several state governments
i am fully aware that among the many
excellent principles which they
exemplify
they carry strong marks of the haste and
still stronger of the inexperience
under which they were framed it is but
too obvious that in some instances the
fundamental principle under
consideration
has been violated by too great a mixture
and even an actual consolidation of the
different powers
and that in no instance has a competent
provision been made for maintaining in
practice the separation delineated on
paper
what i have wished to evince is that the
charge brought against the proposed
constitution
of violating the sacred maxim of free
government is warranted neither by the
real meaning annexed to that maxim by
its author nor by the sense in which it
has hitherto been understood in america
this interesting subject will be resumed
in the ensuing paper
publius